---
layout: post
title: Release notes for ASO v1.0.0
category: sto-aso
comments: true
description: First official release!
---


 - ASO now has an icon. It's the Star Trek logo overlaid with admiral rank pips.
 - Support for Critical Chance Optimization!
    - Every assignment now comes with a Critical Chance slider bar. This slider allows you to control the desired critical chance level, from 0% up to 80%.
    - ASO will now attempt to select ships that will reach the desired critical chance %.
    - For those who are interested in knowing the in-depth reasons for the maximum of 80% crit chance, please scroll down to the bottom of this post.
 - Support for hot-keys
    - Alt-L - Position ASO window on left side of the screen.
    - Alt-R - Position ASO window on right side of the screen.
    - Alt-C - Position ASO window in the center.
    - Alt-S - Toggles "stay on top" mode.
    - Alt-1 - Optimize 1 assignment.
    - Alt-2 - Optimize 2 assignments.
    - Alt-3 - Optimize 3 assignments.
    - Alt-P - Plan assignment(s).
    - Alt-Comma - View previous planned solution.
    - Alt-B - View best planned solution.
    - Alt-Period - View next planned solution.
    - Alt-D - Deploy ships.
 - Updated Ships
    - V.S.S. Tanius
    - APU Cruiser
    - Malon Battlecruiser
    - Kazon Raider
 - Known outstanding issues
    - Stats for the Fleet D'deridex Warbird Battle Cruiser is out of date.
    - Special ability for the Jem'Hadar Strike Ship is out of date.
    - Critical Rating calculation in ASO can occasionally be different from STO's by 1
    - When the assignment has the "Borg Transwarp Gateway!" event, Critical Rating calculation is off by 100.
